Alexander Moore
Daily Digital
Methods 2
3-27-22


“The Degrading Treatment of Ukraine’s Internet” 
The Economist
https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2022/03/26/the-degrading-treatment-of-ukraines-internet

I found a current piece of tech. news entitled “The Degrading Treatment of Ukraine’s Internet” in The Economist.  
Here is a brief description:
Ukraine wants to keep its Internet intact for communication and military readiness reasons, and they have largely been able to do so.  Netblocks, a Long-based firm, believes that Ukraine still has 75% of the devices connected to The Internet that it did before the War.
	Ukraine has a large number of ISPs in the world’s fourth-least concentrated Internet market.  There is a reference to the ARPANET of the 1970s here and how Ukraine’s system has held up well despite the war.
	Ukrainians are also developing contingency plans in case their Internet situation worsens.  Some are collecting batteries to keep cell phones going.  Others are trying to extend cell phone range with household items.  Some are even using radio to support the military to communicate in lieu of Internet.  Elon Musk has even played a role in giving the Ukrainians back-up Internet.  Musk has given Ukraine access to Starlink satellites, which 550km above them in orbit, for Internet access.  
I selected this story above all because I love the source - The Economist.  This is by far the best news publication I have encountered in terms of depth and breadth.  It has a great quarterly publication called Technology Quarterly that focuses on tech. issues of significance that may not be widely discussed but should be.  I also picked it because it is quite newsworthy.  Little matters more now that Russia’s war with Ukraine, and Ukraine’s efforts to keep its Internet operational are admirable.  I also picked it because I am about to start to teach the networking unit as part of the AP Computer Science curriculum.  
Recommended ties for technology news follow:
The Economist Technology Quarterly:  https://www.economist.com/technology-quarterly
The Wall Street Journal:  https://www.wsj.com/
Wired:  https://www.wired.com

